I think about land a lot.
In fact, I am possessed by it.
I think about the land as I speed by it on busy interstates.
Driving at hyperspeed on a four-lane highway
for looking beyond a blurry wall of trees.
to someplace better leaves very little time
Headed downhill from Upcountry to Low
the land falls away from the road at the mercy of water:
of creeks, rivers, swamps, marsh, and ultimately the Mother Atlantic.
Land is somehow always on my mind.
I think this is because I’m missing the land from which I came;
the pastures, fields, woods, creeks, and bottoms of my Home Place.
My obsession is born of the land in Edgefield that nurtured me —
land in the middle of nowhere that meant everything to me.
It is born of growing up on garden-raised vegetables, pasture-fed beef,
and the sweet fruits of our own orchards.
It is born of some of the best years of my life.
It is born of my ancestors' sweat equity.
These ancestors toiled on the land as enslaved,
eventually owning some of it, and then giving away many of its riches
for pennies on the dollar.
I don’t expect everyone to feel the same way that I do about land.
For many of us, the scars are still way too fresh.
Fields of cotton stretching to the horizon --
land worked, sweatland worked, sweated, and suffered over for the profit of others --
shouldn't engender warm feelings among anyone,
least of all, us.
But the land, in spite of its history,
still holds hope for making good on the promises we thought it could,
especially if we can somehow reconnect to it.
I believe the reparations lie not in what someone will give me,
but in what I already own.
I’ve been all over the world, now,
but my wanderlust seems to always find its way home
to piedmont clay, loblolly pine, and prairie warblers.
And though I can't be at the Home Place that used to be,
I've been lucky.
I do still have land and I think about it often.
I think about quail calling in the pines that I’ve just thinned.
I think about hunting lovesick turkeys in the alley
between the cutover and the creek bottom.
I think about the comfort of eating food
that comes by my own hand and hard work.
I imagine the forty acres and the swayback mules
so many were promised but never got.
As we write memoir, as we relate place,
as we relate faces to those places,
past and present and perhaps future,
I think memoir is an important tool.
And so for me again it's been sort of this constant meditation
on from whence I came, and so
coming back home to Edgefield, coming back home to
a place that, for most of its history,
was filled with more hate than hope,
It's a place that I look at
for the ecological value that it holds...
...for what it has brought my family through, and to,
to this point.